# Implement Load Balancing on Compute Engine: Challenge Lab

## Challenge scenario

You have started a new role as a Junior Cloud Engineer for Jooli, Inc. You are expected to help manage the infrastructure at Jooli. Common tasks include provisioning resources for projects.

You are expected to have the skills and knowledge for these tasks, so step-by-step guides are not provided.

Some Jooli, Inc. standards you should follow:

1. Create all resources in the default region or zone, unless otherwise directed. The default region is **`REGION`**, and the default zone is **`ZONE`**.

2. Naming normally uses the format team-resource; for example, an instance could be named nucleus-webserver1.

3. Make sure to create an instance template in global location.

4. Allocate cost-effective resource sizes. Projects are monitored, and excessive resource use will result in the containing project's termination (and possibly yours), so plan carefully. This is the guidance the monitoring team is willing to share: unless directed, use e2-micro for small Linux VMs, and use e2-medium for Windows or other applications, such as Kubernetes nodes.

## Your challenge

As soon as you sit down at your desk and open your new laptop, you receive several requests from the Nucleus team. Read through each description, and then create the resources.

## Task 1. Create a project jumphost instance

You will use this instance to perform maintenance for the project.

**Requirements:**

* Name the instance  **`nucleus-jumphost-494`**.
* Create the instance in the  `europe-west1-d` zone.
* Use an  _e2-micro_  machine type.
* Use the default image type (Debian Linux).

### Solution Task 1:
1. Configure the region for the project:  `gcloud config set compute/region europe-west1`
2. View the region: `gcloud config get-value compute/region`
3. Create an enviroment variable for the region: `export REGION=$(gcloud config get-value compute/region)`
4. Configure the zone: `gcloud config set compute/zone europe-west1-d`
5. View the zone: `gcloud config get-value compute/zone`
6. Create an enviroment variable for the zone: `export ZONE=$(gcloud config get-value compute/zone)`
7. Create an environment variable for the project ID: `export PROJECT_ID=$(gcloud config get-value project)` 
8. See the enviroment variables: `echo $REGION`
9. Create an instance in GCP: `gcloud compute instances create nucleus-jumphost-494 --machine-type e2-micro --zone=$ZONE`
9. To access the VM: `gcloud compute ssh nucleus-jumphost-494 --zone=$ZONE`
10. To exit the VM: `exit`

## Task 2. Set up an HTTP load balancer

You will serve the site via nginx web servers, but you want to ensure that the environment is fault-tolerant. Create an HTTP load balancer with a managed instance group of **`2 nginx web servers`**. Use the following code to configure the web servers; the team will replace this with their own configuration later. 

```yaml
cat << EOF > startup.sh
#! /bin/bash
apt-get update
apt-get install -y nginx
service nginx start
sed -i -- 's/nginx/Google Cloud Platform - '"\$HOSTNAME"'/' /var/www/html/index.nginx-debian.html
EOF
```

**Note:** There is a limit to the resources you are allowed to create in your project, so do not create more than 2 instances in your managed instance group. If you do, the lab might end and you might be banned.

**You need to**:

* Create an instance template. Don't use the default machine type. Make sure you specify  **e2-medium**  as the machine type and create the **Global** template.
* Create a managed instance group based on the template.
* Create a firewall rule named as  `permit-tcp-rule-797` to allow traffic (80/tcp).
* Create a health check.
* Create a backend service and add your instance group as the backend to the backend service group with named port (http:80).
* Create a URL map, and target the HTTP proxy to route the incoming requests to the default backend service.
* Create a target HTTP proxy to route requests to your URL map
* Create a forwarding rule.

### Solution Task 2:
1. Create the startup.sh file:

```yaml
cat << EOF > startup.sh
#! /bin/bash
apt-get update
apt-get install -y nginx
service nginx start
sed -i -- 's/nginx/Google Cloud Platform - '"\$HOSTNAME"'/' /var/www/html/index.nginx-debian.html
EOF
```
**Note**: Create a file with the name startup.sh

2. Create an instance template:
```yaml
gcloud compute instance-templates create web-server-template \
    --metadata-from-file startup-script=startup.sh \
    --machine-type e2-medium \
    --region $REGION
```

2. Create a managed instance group based on the template:
```yaml
gcloud compute instance-groups managed create web-server-group \
    --base-instance-name web-server \
    --size 2 \
    --template web-server-template \
    --region $REGION
```

3. Create the `permit-tcp-rule-797` firewall rule:
```yaml
gcloud compute firewall-rules create permit-tcp-rule-797 \
    --allow tcp:80 \
    --network default
```

4. Create a static external IP (Optional):
```yaml
gcloud compute addresses create lb-ipv4-1 \
  --ip-version=IPV4 \
  --global
```

Note the IPv4 address that was reserved:
```yaml
gcloud compute addresses describe lb-ipv4-1 \
  --format="get(address)" \
  --global
```

5. Create a health check for the load balancer:
```yaml
gcloud compute http-health-checks create http-basic-check
```

6. Update the managed instance group:
```yaml
gcloud compute instance-groups managed \
    set-named-ports web-server-group \
    --named-ports http:80 \
    --region $REGION
```

7. Create a backend service and attach the managed instance group:
```yaml
gcloud compute backend-services create web-server-backend \
    --protocol HTTP \
    --http-health-checks http-basic-check \
    --global
```

8. Add your instance group as the backend to the backend service:
```yaml
gcloud compute backend-services add-backend web-server-backend \
    --instance-group web-server-group \
    --instance-group-region $REGION \
    --global
```

9. Create a URL map to route the incoming requests to the default backend service:
```yaml
gcloud compute url-maps create web-server-map \
    --default-service web-server-backend
```


10. Create a target HTTP proxy to route requests to your URL map:
```yaml
gcloud compute target-http-proxies create http-lb-proxy \
    --url-map web-server-map
```

11. Create a global forwarding rule to route incoming requests to the proxy (address is optional)
```yaml
gcloud compute forwarding-rules create http-content-rule \
    --global \
    --target-http-proxy http-lb-proxy \
    --ports 80 \
    --address=lb-ipv4-1
```

12. See IP Load Balancer:
```yaml
gcloud compute forwarding-rules list
```

